---
layout: post
title: AD CS Attack - ESC9
category: [AD CS Attack,ESC9]
tags: []
---

Abusing ESC9 relies on exploiting certificate mapping; therefore understanding it and its intricate functionality is crucial.

## LAB Setup



## Understanding ESC9 and Certificate Mapping

A key aspect to grasp is that if the msPKI-Enrollment-Flag attribute of a certificate template contains the `CT_FLAG_NO_SECURITY_EXTENSION` flag, it effectively negates the embedding of the `szOID_NTDS_CA_SECURITY_EXT` security extension. This means that irrespective of the configuration of the **StrongCertificateBindingEnforcement** registry
key (even if set to its default value of **1**), the mapping process will occur as if the registry key had a value of **0** , essentially bypassing strong certificate mapping.

Consequently, this loophole can be exploited if we possess sufficient privileges to access and modify a user account's User Principal Name (UPN) , aligning it with the UPN of another account. By leveraging this manipulated configuration, we can request a certificate for the user using their legitimate credentials. Remarkably, the obtained certificate will be seamlessly mapped to the other account, which is the ultimate target.


## ESC9 Abuse Requirements

To successfully abuse this misconfiguration, specific prerequisites must be met:

1. The **StrongCertificateBindingEnforcement** registry key should not be set to **2** (by default, it is set to **1** ), or the CertificateMappingMethods should contain the UPN flag ( 0x4 ). Regrettably, as a low-privileged user, accessing and reading the values of these registry keys is typically unattainable.

2. The certificate template must incorporate the `CT_FLAG_NO_SECURITY_EXTENSION` flag within the `msPKI-Enrollment-Flag` value.

3. The certificate template should explicitly specify **Client Authentication** as its purpose.

4. The attacker must possess at least the `GenericWrite` privilege against any user account (account A) to compromise the security of any other user account (account B).

## ESC9 Enumeration

### Identifying Vulnerable Templates

Let's use `certipy-ad` to find vulnerable templates, and let's focus on the template **ESC9**.

```shell
certipy find -u '[email protected]' -p 'Password123!' -dc-ip 172.17.1.100 -vulnerable -stdout
```

The `ESC9` template has the value msPKI-Enrollment-Flag for the `CT_FLAG_NO_SECURITY_EXTENSION` flag; this is implied from the `NoSecurityExtension` value of the `Enrollment Flag` field.

## ESC9 Attack

For example, let's say that we want to compromise user3 . We need to have FullControl rights over any user account. In this case, we have those rights over user2 . Now we can modify user2 's UPN to match our target user's UPN , request a certificate as user2 with the UPN modification using the vulnerable certificate, and we will receive the certificate for our target account user3 . Let's complete this attack:

We can confirm that we have `FullControl` rights over user2 using `dacledit.py`; at the time of writing, the pull request ( #1291) offering the tool is still being reviewed. We can get `dacledit.py` directly from the ShutdownRepo fork while the branch gets merged into the impacket's main branch.


## References

 - [Certified Pre-Owned](https://posts.specterops.io/certified-pre-owned-d95910965cd2)